In the previous module,
we learned about building a RESTful API. REST is the most popular way to
expose data from a server through an API; however,
the response returned from a REST API is very rigid and returns
all of the data points as designed by the developer, whether you
need them or not. GraphQL offers greater flexibility in the
response returned than REST.
What is GraphQL?
Simply put,
GraphQL is a query language for APIs or a syntax that
describes how to ask for data and is generally used to load
data from a server to a client.
The neat thing about GraphQL is that it lets the calling client or the user
specify exactly what data it needs, and it also allows for the aggregation
of data from multiple sources on the back end,
allowing the client to make one call to get all of the data it needs.
With GraphQL, there is no longer a need to call one API to get some of the data
you need and then call another API to get the rest of the data that you need.
GraphQL offers maximum efficiency and flexibility.
Each query will have a specific object that it returns,
and based on the object returned,
you can add or remove fields to match the exact data you
need to fit your specific use case.
On the left‑hand side is a sample query,
and on the right‑hand side is the response.
As a query language, GraphQL provides you with a lot of flexibility that most
normal APIs or web services don't. Unlike regular SOAP or REST APIs, GraphQL
gives you the ultimate flexibility in being able to specify in your API
requests specifically what data you need and get that back exactly. In this
example, on the left‑hand side is the query. Notice this time I've included
owner, and on the right‑hand side is the response, and notice this time, it returns the owner.